#summary The document provides information about tools being used in the project and information about build process
#labels Featured

= Accessing project sources =

To be able to access project sources you will need one of [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] clients. You may use command line utilities to work with source code repository or you can use one of Subversion [http://subversion.tigris.org/links.html GUI and IDE clients]. Personally I prefer to use [http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/ TortoiseSVN] client.

When you checked out the project, you should have 2 folders in your file system:
{{{
[AForge Home]
  |- Samples
  \- Sources
}}}

= Working with source codes and building the project =

Once you checked out project sources you will need an IDE to work with them, update them and build. You can use any IDE, which supports .NET 2.0 projects. For example Notepad and command line tool could be fine. But, if you don't want to lose a lot of time, I would suggest you to download free [http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/visualcsharp/download/ C# 2005 Express Edition] from Microsoft, which was used for development of the framework.

The first thing to do is to build the AForge.NET libraries, which sources are placed in the *Sources* folder. When you build libraries successfully, you will get *Release* folder with all AForge.NET libraries:
{{{
[AForge Home]
  |- Release
  |- Samples
  \- Sources
}}}

After that, you can go into *Samples* folder and open and build any of the provided samples. Or you can go to the next step and build project documentation.

= Building project documentation =

At this moment [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyId=E82EA71D-DA89-42EE-A715-696E3A4873B2&displaylang=en Sandcastle] is used as a tool to build project documentation. It provides you with ability to build nice documentation in the VS.NET 2005 style. But, since Sandcastle provides only command line utilities, it is not so convenient in use. That is why [http://www.codeplex.com/SHFB Sandcastle Help File Builder] was used as GUI for Sandcastle, which allows to create help file projects and build them. Help file project files are placed in *Sources/Docs Projects* folder. After you open and build each project one by one, you get complete AForge.NET documentation in the *Docs* folder:
{{{
[AForge Home]
  |- Docs
  |- Release
  |- Samples
  \- Sources
}}}

= Building installation package =

To build installation package [http://www.jrsoftware.org/isinfo.php Inno Setup] installer is used. The setup project can be found in the */Sources/Setup Project* folder. To build successfully an installation package the next directory structure should be in the setup project folder:
{{{
[Setup Project]
  |- aforge.iss
  |- gpl.txt
  \- Files
      |- Docs
      |- IPLab
      |- Release
      |- Samples
      |- Sources
      |- Copyright.txt
      \- Release notes.txt
}}}